add `peft` release blog (#828)
huggingface/blog: peft.md

---
title: "Parameter-Efficient Fine-Tuning using 🤗 PEFT"
thumbnail: /blog/assets/130_peft/thumbnail.png
authors:
- user: smangrul
- user: sayakpaul
---

<h1>Parameter-Efficient Fine-Tuning using 🤗 PEFT</h1>

<!-- {blog_metadata} -->
<!-- {authors} -->

# Motivation

> Large Language Models (LLMs) based on Transformers architectures like GPT, T5 and BERT have achieved state-of-the-art results in various Natural Language Processing (NLP) tasks and have also started foraying in other domains such as Computer Vision (CV) and Audio. The conventional paradigm is large-scale pretraining on generic web-scale data followed by finetuning to downstream tasks. Finetuning of these pretrained LLMs on downstream datasets which results in huge perforamnce gains when compared to using the pretrained LLMs out-of-the-box. However, as models get larger and larger, full finetuning becomes infeasible to train on consumer hardware and storing and deploying fine-tuned models independently for each downstream task becomes very expensive. Parameter-Efficient Fine-tuning (PEFT) approaches are meant to address this problem.

Reviewer: Maybe also briefly other domains in the intro (such as Stable Diffusion), not just LLMs.

> PEFT approaches only fine-tune a small number of (extra) model parameters while freezing most parameters of the pretrained LLMs, thereby greatly decreasing the computational and storage costs. This also overcomes the issues of catastrophic forgetting benaviour observed in full finetuning of LLMs. PEFT approaches have also shown to be better than fine-tuning in low-data regime and generalizes better to out-of-domain scenarios. It also helps in portability wherein users can tune models using PEFT methods to get tiny checkpoints worth few MBs compared to the large checkpoints of full fine-tuning, e.g., `bigscience/mt0-xxl` takes up 40GB of storage and full fine-tuning will lead to 40GB checkpoint for each downstream dataset wheread using PEFT methods it would be few MBs for each downstream dataset all the while achieving comparable performance to full fine-tuning. **In short, PEFT approaches enables you to get perfoemance comparable to full fine-tuning while only having small number of trainable parameters.**  

Reviewer: The suggestion block doesn't work for some reason, I suggested a few small fixes:

> PEFT approaches only fine-tune a small number of (extra) model parameters while freezing most parameters of the pretrained LLMs, thereby greatly decreasing the computational and storage costs. This also overcomes the issues of catastrophic forgetting benaviour observed in full finetuning of LLMs. PEFT approaches have also shown to be better than fine-tuning in low-data regimes and generalize better to out-of-domain scenarios. They also help in portability wherein users can tune models using PEFT methods to get tiny checkpoints of just a few MBs, compared to the large checkpoints of full fine-tuning. For example, [`bigscience/mt0-xxl`](https://huggingface.co/bigscience/mt0-xxl) takes up 40GB of storage, so full fine-tuning will lead to 40GB checkpoints for each downstream dataset or task. Using PEFT methods, the trained weights would just be a few MBs for each downstream dataset, all the while achieving comparable performance to full fine-tuning. In short, PEFT approaches enable you to get performance comparable to full fine-tuning while only having a small number of trainable parameters.

Maybe adding a link relative to catastrophic forgetting would be nice.

I think it would also be worth clarifying that the small trained weights are added on top of the pretrained LLM. So the same LLM can be used for multiple tasks by adding small weights; it's not that we can replace the LLM with the small weights.

Hugging Face is excited to introduce 🤗 PEFT library which provides latest Parameter-Efficient Fine-tuning techniques seamlessly integrated with 🤗 Transformers and 🤗 Accelerate. This enables using most popular and performant models from 🤗 Transformers coupled with the simplicity and sclability of 🤗 Accelerate. Below are the currently supported PEFT methods with more coming soon:

1. LoRA: [LORA: LOW-RANK ADAPTATION OF LARGE LANGUAGE MODELS](https://arxiv.org/pdf/2106.09685.pdf)
2. Prefix Tuning: [P-Tuning v2: Prompt Tuning Can Be Comparable to Fine-tuning Universally Across Scales and Tasks](https://arxiv.org/pdf/2110.07602.pdf)
3. Prompt Tuning: [The Power of Scale for Parameter-Efficient Prompt Tuning](https://arxiv.org/pdf/2104.08691.pdf) 
4. P-Tuning: [GPT Understands, Too](https://arxiv.org/pdf/2103.10385.pdf) 

## Use Cases

> We focus on the plethora of interesting use-cases in the [README](https://github.com/huggingface/peft#use-cases) of the library. Highlighting below few of the more interesting ones:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We focus on the plethora of interesting use-cases in the [README](https://github.com/huggingface/peft#use-cases) of the library. These are a few of the more interesting ones:
```

1. Using 🤗 PEFT LoRA for tuning `bigscience/T0_3B` model (3 Billion parameters) on consumer hardware with 16GB GPU using

> 🤗 Accelerate's DepSpeed integration: [peft_lora_seq2seq_accelerate_ds_zero3_offload.py](https://github.com/huggingface/peft/blob/main/examples/conditional_generation/peft_lora_seq2seq_accelerate_ds_zero3_offload.py). This means you can tune such large LLMs in Google Colab.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
🤗 Accelerate's DeepSpeed integration: [peft_lora_seq2seq_accelerate_ds_zero3_offload.py](https://github.com/huggingface/peft/blob/main/examples/conditional_generation/peft_lora_seq2seq_accelerate_ds_zero3_offload.py). This means you can tune such large LLMs in Google Colab.
```

> 2. Taking previous example a notch up by enabling INT8 tuning of `OPT-6.7b` model (6.7 Billion parameters) in Google Colab

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2. Taking the previous example a notch up by enabling INT8 tuning of `OPT-6.7b` model (6.7 Billion parameters) in Google Colab
```

using 🤗 PEFT LoRA and bitsandbytes: [![Open In Colab](https://colab.research.google.com/assets/colab-badge.svg)](https://colab.research.google.com/drive/1jCkpikz0J2o20FBQmYmAGdiKmJGOMo-o?usp=sharing)

> 3. Stable Diffusion Dreambooth tuning using 🤗 PEFT on consumer hardware. Try out the 🤗 Gradio Space which should run seamlessly on a T4 instance (16GB GPU): [smangrul/peft-lora-sd-dreambooth](https://huggingface.co/spaces/smangrul/peft-lora-sd-dreambooth).

Reviewer: Maybe also worth mentioning other consumer hardware with 11 GB of RAM, such as 2080 Ti, 3080, etc. So it works in personal computers, not just colab or cloud services.

Maybe also link to bitsandbytes, and/or to our blog post on 8-bit computing: https://huggingface.co/blog/hf-bitsandbytes-integration

![peft lora dreambooth gradio space](https://huggingface.co/datasets/huggingface/documentation-images/resolve/main/peft/peft_lora_dreambooth_gradio_space.png)

## Training your own model using 🤗 PEFT

Let's consider the case of tuning `bigscience/mt0-large` using LoRA.  

1. Let's get the necessary imports

```diff
from transformers import AutoModelForSeq2SeqLM
+ from peft import get_peft_model, LoraConfig, TaskType
model_name_or_path = "bigscience/mt0-large"
tokenizer_name_or_path = "bigscience/mt0-large"
```

2. Creating config corresponding to the PEFT method
```
peft_config = LoraConfig(
    task_type=TaskType.SEQ_2_SEQ_LM, inference_mode=False, r=8, lora_alpha=32, lora_dropout=0.1
)

> ```

Reviewer: If we are not going to explain what the configuration parameters mean, maybe link to the project readme and tell readers to go there for details :)

3. Wrapping base 🤗 Transformers model by calling `get_peft_model`
```diff
model = AutoModelForSeq2SeqLM.from_pretrained(model_name_or_path)
+ model = get_peft_model(model, peft_config)
+ model.print_trainable_parameters()
# output: trainable params: 2359296 || all params: 1231940608 || trainable%: 0.19151053100118282
```

> That's it! Rest of the training loop remains same. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
That's it! The rest of the training loop remains same. 
```

4. When you are ready to save the model for inference, just do the following. For exmaple, you can find the `bigscience/T0_3B` tuned using LoRA on `twitter_complaints` raft dataset here: [smangrul/twitter_complaints_bigscience_T0_3B_LORA_SEQ_2_SEQ_LM](https://huggingface.co/smangrul/twitter_complaints_bigscience_T0_3B_LORA_SEQ_2_SEQ_LM). Notice that it has 2 files `adapter_config.json` and `adapter_model.bin` with the latter being just `19MB`.  
```
model.save_pretrained("output_dir") # model.push_to_hub("my_awesome_peft_model")

> ```

Reviewer: Maybe put the code first and then the example?

> 4. When you are ready to save or upload the model for inference, just do the following. 
> ```
> model.save_pretrained("output_dir") # model.push_to_hub("my_awesome_peft_model")
> ```
> 
> This will only save the incremental PEFT weights that were trained. For example, you can find the `bigscience/T0_3B` tuned using LoRA on the `twitter_complaints` raft dataset here: [smangrul/twitter_complaints_bigscience_T0_3B_LORA_SEQ_2_SEQ_LM](https://huggingface.co/smangrul/twitter_complaints_bigscience_T0_3B_LORA_SEQ_2_SEQ_LM). Notice that it only contains 2 files: `adapter_config.json` and `adapter_model.bin` with the latter being just `19MB`.

> 5. To load it for inference, follow the below snippet:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
5. To load it for inference, follow the snippet below:
```

```diff
from transformers import AutoModelForSeq2SeqLM
+ from peft import PeftModel, PeftConfig

peft_model_id = "smangrul/twitter_complaints_bigscience_T0_3B_LORA_SEQ_2_SEQ_LM"
config = PeftConfig.from_pretrained(peft_model_id)
model = AutoModelForSeq2SeqLM.from_pretrained(config.base_model_name_or_path)

> + model = PeftModel.from_pretrained(model, peft_model_id)

Reviewer: Awesome!

tokenizer = AutoTokenizer.from_pretrained(config.base_model_name_or_path)

model = model.to(device)
model.eval()
inputs = tokenizer("Tweet text : @HondaCustSvc Your customer service has been horrible during the recall process. I will never purchase a Honda again. Label :", return_tensors="pt")

with torch.no_grad():
    outputs = model.generate(input_ids=inputs["input_ids"].to("cuda"), max_new_tokens=10)
    print(tokenizer.batch_decode(outputs.detach().cpu().numpy(), skip_special_tokens=True)[0])
# 'complaint'
```

## Next steps

> We've released PEFT as an efficient way of tuning large LLMs on downstream tasks and domains saving a lot of compute and storage while achieving comparable performance to full finetuning. In the coming months, we'll be exploring more PEFT methods such as (IA)3 and bottleneck adapters. Also focus on new use cases such as INT8 training of `wishper-large` model in Colab and tuning of RLHF compnents such as policy and ranker using PEFT approaches. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
We've released PEFT as an efficient way of tuning large LLMs on downstream tasks and domains, saving a lot of compute and storage while achieving comparable performance to full finetuning. In the coming months, we'll be exploring more PEFT methods, such as (IA)3 and bottleneck adapters. Also, focus on new use cases such as INT8 training of [`wishper-large`](https://huggingface.co/openai/whisper-large) model in Colab and tuning of RLHF components such as policy and ranker using PEFT approaches.
```

Possible to also comment on the computer vision use cases so that the readers don't think that PEFT is only limited to LLMs and other large models like Stable Diffusion.

> ---

Reviewer 3: You'll also need to change https://github.com/huggingface/blog/blob/main/_blog.yml so the blog is included

Author: Done, Thank you!

title: "Parameter-Efficient Fine-Tuning using 🤗 PEFT"
thumbnail: /blog/assets/130_peft/thumbnail.png
authors:
- user: smangrul
- user: sayakpaul
---

> <h1>Parameter-Efficient Fine-Tuning using 🤗 PEFT</h1>

Reviewer 4: I wonder if we don't want a bit more of a flashy title?

Something like (just examples):
- PEFT: fine-tune billion-scale models on consumer hardware
- Fine-tuning very large transformer models in a matter of minutes using PEFT
- ...

Author: Done. Updated it to `🤗 PEFT: Parameter-Efficient Fine-Tuning of Billion-Scale Models on Low-Resource Hardware`

<!-- {blog_metadata} -->
<!-- {authors} -->

# Motivation

> Large Language Models (LLMs) based on Transformers architectures like GPT, T5, and BERT have achieved state-of-the-art results in various Natural Language Processing (NLP) tasks. They have also started foraying into other domains, such as Computer Vision (CV) and Audio. The conventional paradigm is large-scale pretraining on generic web-scale data followed by finetuning to downstream tasks. Finetuning of these pretrained LLMs on downstream datasets results in huge performance gains when compared to using the pretrained LLMs out-of-the-box (zero-shot inference, for example).

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Large Language Models (LLMs) based on Transformers architectures like GPT, T5, and BERT have achieved state-of-the-art results in various Natural Language Processing (NLP) tasks. They have also started foraying into other domains, such as Computer Vision (CV) and Audio. The conventional paradigm is large-scale pretraining on generic web-scale data followed by fine-tuning to downstream tasks. Fine-tuning these pretrained LLMs on downstream datasets results in huge performance gains compared to using the pretrained LLMs out-of-the-box (zero-shot inference, for example).
```

> However, as models get larger and larger, full finetuning becomes infeasible to train on consumer hardware, and storing and deploying fine-tuned models independently for each downstream task becomes very expensive. Parameter-Efficient Fine-tuning (PEFT) approaches are meant to address this problem.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
However, as models get larger and larger, full fine-tuning becomes infeasible to train on consumer hardware, and storing and deploying fine-tuned models independently for each downstream task becomes very expensive. Parameter-Efficient Fine-tuning (PEFT) approaches are meant to address this problem!
```

PEFT approaches only fine-tune a small number of (extra) model parameters while freezing most parameters of the pretrained LLMs, thereby greatly decreasing the computational and storage costs. This also overcomes the issues of catastrophic forgetting, a behavior observed during the full finetuning of LLMs. PEFT approaches have also shown to be better than fine-tuning in the low-data regimes and generalize better to out-of-domain scenarios.

It also helps in portability wherein users can tune models using PEFT methods to get tiny checkpoints worth a few MBs compared to the large checkpoints of full fine-tuning, e.g., `bigscience/mt0-xxl` takes up 40GB of storage and full fine-tuning will lead to 40GB checkpoints for each downstream dataset whereas using PEFT methods it would be just a few MBs for each downstream dataset all the while achieving comparable performance to full fine-tuning.

**In short, PEFT approaches enable you to get performance comparable to full fine-tuning while only having a small number of trainable parameters.**

> Today, we are excited is excited to introduce 🤗 PEFT library which provides the latest Parameter-Efficient Fine-tuning techniques seamlessly integrated with 🤗 Transformers and 🤗 Accelerate. This enables using the most popular and performant models from 🤗 Transformers coupled with the simplicity and scalability of 🤗 Accelerate. Below are the currently supported PEFT methods, with more coming soon:

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Today, we are excited to introduce the 🤗 PEFT library, which provides the latest Parameter-Efficient Fine-tuning techniques seamlessly integrated with 🤗 Transformers and 🤗 Accelerate. This enables using the most popular and performant models from 🤗 Transformers coupled with the simplicity and scalability of 🤗 Accelerate. Below are the currently supported PEFT methods, with more coming soon:
```

1. LoRA: [LORA: LOW-RANK ADAPTATION OF LARGE LANGUAGE MODELS](https://arxiv.org/pdf/2106.09685.pdf)
2. Prefix Tuning: [P-Tuning v2: Prompt Tuning Can Be Comparable to Fine-tuning Universally Across Scales and Tasks](https://arxiv.org/pdf/2110.07602.pdf)
3. Prompt Tuning: [The Power of Scale for Parameter-Efficient Prompt Tuning](https://arxiv.org/pdf/2104.08691.pdf) 
4. P-Tuning: [GPT Understands, Too](https://arxiv.org/pdf/2103.10385.pdf) 

## Use Cases

We explore many interesting use cases [here](https://github.com/huggingface/peft#use-cases). Below are some of the most interesting ones: 

> 1. Using 🤗 PEFT LoRA for tuning `bigscience/T0_3B` model (3 Billion parameters) on consumer hardware with 16GB GPU using

Reviewer 5: Maybe precise which hardware here.

🤗 Accelerate's DeepSpeed integration: [peft_lora_seq2seq_accelerate_ds_zero3_offload.py](https://github.com/huggingface/peft/blob/main/examples/conditional_generation/peft_lora_seq2seq_accelerate_ds_zero3_offload.py). This means you can tune such large LLMs in Google Colab.

2. Taking the previous example a notch up by enabling INT8 tuning of `OPT-6.7b` model (6.7 Billion parameters) in Google Colab
using 🤗 PEFT LoRA and bitsandbytes: [![Open In Colab](https://colab.research.google.com/assets/colab-badge.svg)](https://colab.research.google.com/drive/1jCkpikz0J2o20FBQmYmAGdiKmJGOMo-o?usp=sharing)

> 3. Stable Diffusion Dreambooth training using 🤗 PEFT on consumer hardware. Try out the 🤗 Gradio Space, which should run seamlessly on a T4 instance (16GB GPU): [smangrul/peft-lora-sd-dreambooth](https://huggingface.co/spaces/smangrul/peft-lora-sd-dreambooth).

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
3. Stable Diffusion Dreambooth training using 🤗 PEFT on consumer hardware. Try out the Space demo, which should run seamlessly on a T4 instance (16GB GPU): [smangrul/peft-lora-sd-dreambooth](https://huggingface.co/spaces/smangrul/peft-lora-sd-dreambooth).
```

![peft lora dreambooth gradio space](https://huggingface.co/datasets/huggingface/documentation-images/resolve/main/peft/peft_lora_dreambooth_gradio_space.png)

## Training your own model using 🤗 PEFT

Let's consider the case of fine-tuning [`bigscience/mt0-large`](https://huggingface.co/bigscience/mt0-large) using LoRA.  

1. Let's get the necessary imports

```diff

> from transformers import AutoModelForSeq2SeqLM
> + from peft import get_peft_model, LoraConfig, TaskType
> model_name_or_path = "bigscience/mt0-large"
> tokenizer_name_or_path = "bigscience/mt0-large"

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
  from transformers import AutoModelForSeq2SeqLM
+ from peft import get_peft_model, LoraConfig, TaskType

  model_name_or_path = "bigscience/mt0-large"
  tokenizer_name_or_path = "bigscience/mt0-large"
```

```

2. Creating config corresponding to the PEFT method

> ```

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
```py
```

peft_config = LoraConfig(
    task_type=TaskType.SEQ_2_SEQ_LM, inference_mode=False, r=8, lora_alpha=32, lora_dropout=0.1
)
```

3. Wrapping base 🤗 Transformers model by calling `get_peft_model`
```diff
model = AutoModelForSeq2SeqLM.from_pretrained(model_name_or_path)
+ model = get_peft_model(model, peft_config)
+ model.print_trainable_parameters()
# output: trainable params: 2359296 || all params: 1231940608 || trainable%: 0.19151053100118282
```

That's it! The rest of the training loop remains same. 

4. When you are ready to save the model for inference, just do the following. For example, you can find the `bigscience/T0_3B` tuned using LoRA on `twitter_complaints` raft dataset here: [smangrul/twitter_complaints_bigscience_T0_3B_LORA_SEQ_2_SEQ_LM](https://huggingface.co/smangrul/twitter_complaints_bigscience_T0_3B_LORA_SEQ_2_SEQ_LM). Notice that it has 2 files `adapter_config.json` and `adapter_model.bin` with the latter being just `19MB`.

> ```

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
```py
```

model.save_pretrained("output_dir") 
# model.push_to_hub("my_awesome_peft_model") also works
```

5. To load it for inference, follow the snippet below:

> ```diff

Reviewer 5: Same for this sample.

from transformers import AutoModelForSeq2SeqLM
+ from peft import PeftModel, PeftConfig

peft_model_id = "smangrul/twitter_complaints_bigscience_T0_3B_LORA_SEQ_2_SEQ_LM"
config = PeftConfig.from_pretrained(peft_model_id)
model = AutoModelForSeq2SeqLM.from_pretrained(config.base_model_name_or_path)
+ model = PeftModel.from_pretrained(model, peft_model_id)
tokenizer = AutoTokenizer.from_pretrained(config.base_model_name_or_path)

model = model.to(device)
model.eval()
inputs = tokenizer("Tweet text : @HondaCustSvc Your customer service has been horrible during the recall process. I will never purchase a Honda again. Label :", return_tensors="pt")

with torch.no_grad():
    outputs = model.generate(input_ids=inputs["input_ids"].to("cuda"), max_new_tokens=10)
    print(tokenizer.batch_decode(outputs.detach().cpu().numpy(), skip_special_tokens=True)[0])
# 'complaint'
```

## Next steps

> We've released PEFT as an efficient way of tuning large LLMs on downstream tasks and domains, saving a lot of compute and storage while achieving comparable performance to full finetuning. In the coming months, we'll be exploring more PEFT methods, such as (IA)3 and bottleneck adapters. Also, focus on new use cases such as INT8 training of [`wishper-large`](https://huggingface.co/openai/whisper-large) model in Colab and tuning of RLHF components such as policy and ranker using PEFT approaches.

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
We've released PEFT as an efficient way of tuning large LLMs on downstream tasks and domains, saving a lot of compute and storage while achieving comparable performance to full finetuning. In the coming months, we'll be exploring more PEFT methods, such as (IA)3 and bottleneck adapters. Also, focus on new use cases such as INT8 training of [`whisper-large`](https://huggingface.co/openai/whisper-large) model in Colab and tuning of RLHF components such as policy and ranker using PEFT approaches.
```
